README.md, before:

# cybersecurity-labs
This repository documents hands-on learning through the OverTheWire Bandit wargame, focused on Linux command-line usage and fundamental security concepts.

---

## OverTheWire – Bandit Wargame (Levels 0–12)

- Practiced Linux commands such as `ls`, `cat`, `cd`, `file`, `find`, `grep`, `base64`, `xxd`, `cut`, `strings`, `gzip`, and `bzip2`
- Worked with hidden files, unusual filenames, symbolic links, and hexdump-encoded files
- Explored file permissions, redirection, and decoding layers (e.g., Base64 → gzip → bzip2)
- Used shell tools to inspect, decode, and reconstruct binary and encoded content
- Gained practical experience in navigating and analyzing file systems securely

---

## Skills Acquired

- Linux file system navigation  
- Command-line based security tasks  
- File decoding and multi-step extraction techniques  
- Working with file permissions, symbolic links, and encodings  
- Hexdump reversal and binary file reconstruction  
- Identifying and reading hidden or protected files  

---

## In Progress

- Continuing Bandit Levels 13+ to build deeper understanding of CLI security, scripting, and advanced permission handling

---

## Contact

- nithashababuraj2000@gmail.com  
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nithasha-babu-raj-477a351b9/)  
- [GitHub](https://github.com/nithashab2000)

Commit message:

completed bandit level(13->14)
ssh bandit13@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
ls
ssh -i sshkey.private bandit14@localhost -p 2220
cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit14
password:MU4VWeTyJk8ROof1qqmcBPaLh7lDCPvS
exit(logout from bandit14)
exit(logout from bandit13)

README.md, after:

# cybersecurity-labs
This repository documents hands-on learning through the OverTheWire Bandit wargame, focused on Linux command-line usage and fundamental security concepts.

---

## OverTheWire – Bandit Wargame (Levels 0–12)

- Practiced Linux commands such as `ls`, `cat`, `cd`, `file`, `find`, `grep`, `base64`, `xxd`, `cut`, `strings`, `gzip`, and `bzip2`
- Worked with hidden files, unusual filenames, symbolic links, and hexdump-encoded files
- Explored file permissions, redirection, and decoding layers (e.g., Base64 → gzip → bzip2)
- Used shell tools to inspect, decode, and reconstruct binary and encoded content
- Gained practical experience in navigating and analyzing file systems securely
- Used a private SSH key to authenticate without a password  
- Connected to the next level via `ssh` using the `-i` option for key-based authentication  
- Understood the use of `localhost` to connect to services running on the same machine
---

## Skills Acquired

- Linux file system navigation  
- Command-line based security tasks  
- File decoding and multi-step extraction techniques  
- Working with file permissions, symbolic links, and encodings  
- Hexdump reversal and binary file reconstruction  
- Identifying and reading hidden or protected files
- Used SSH key-based authentication

---

## In Progress

- Continuing Bandit Levels 14+ to build deeper understanding of CLI security, scripting, and advanced permission handling

---

## Contact

- nithashababuraj2000@gmail.com  
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nithasha-babu-raj-477a351b9/)  
- [GitHub](https://github.com/nithashab2000)
